README.md, before:

# FF7 - Fenrir
> Web based game engine for FF7 - Work-in-progress

![FF7 Fenrir](https://i.ibb.co/LR51c6f/title.png)

We all love FF7, there are lots of Mods and an amazing community. As part of my personal foray into 3D graphics, I wanted to work to better understand the assets, data and logic, ideally with result of creating a new Game Engine that runs using FF7 data.

I will prodeminately be looking at recreating the fields in the first instance. Ideally it will use the in game assets (`.lgp`'s etc), but I will start using generated json fields and pngs for a start.

I've also added a huge amount of functionality to [https://github.com/dangarfield/kujata](kujata) also - Web-friendly FF7 assets

Live Link - [https://ff7-fenrir.netlify.app/](https://ff7-fenrir.netlify.app/)

### Installation
- None, [https://ff7-fenrir.netlify.app/](https://ff7-fenrir.netlify.app/) link. If you want to install locally:
- Clone this repo `git clone https://github.com/dangarfield/ff7-fenrir.git`
- Clone `git clone https://github.com/dangarfield/kujata-data.git` into a seperate directory and symlink into a previously created `ff7-fenrir` folder, ensuring that it is called `kujata-data-dg`. Alternatively, edit `KUJATA_BASE` variable in `app.mjs` to NOT point to localhost
- Install `node.js`, `git clone https://github.com/dangarfield/ff7-fenrir.git`, `cd` to folder, `npm install serve` (or any other static web server), run `serve`, open `http://localhost:5000` in browser, or `http-server -p 5000 -s`

### Progress - Field
- :white_check_mark: Extract model assets from kujata
- :white_check_mark: Extract field data - Added a lot more to kujata
- :white_check_mark: Render walkmesh and models
- :white_check_mark: Align walkmesh with static renders (Some mismatches on some fields. although this appears to be simple lateral movement)
- :white_check_mark: Extract layer by layer field data and add to kujata-data
- :white_check_mark: Apply 3D occlussion culling using Perspective Camera approach (may change approach to multiple blended orthogonal approaches) - Roughly right
- :white_check_mark: Orientation and scale of models on walkmesh (About right)
- :white_check_mark: Control character on screen
- :white_check_mark: Crop, zoom and centering for non-default viewport fields (320x240)
- :white_check_mark: Viewport follows character on screen
- :white_check_mark: Triggers and gateways have collisions and behaviours
- :white_check_mark: Model collision detection and talking area collision
- :white_check_mark: Refactor into cleaner code
- :white_check_mark: Implement remaining trigger behaviours
- :white_check_mark: Extract kernel.bin(s) to helpful format
- :white_check_mark: Extract window.bin to helpful format
- :white_check_mark: Extract window.bin individual paletted pngs
- :white_check_mark: Field position helpers -> Hand and animated arrows (not figured out scale or gatewayArrow positions yet)
- :white_check_mark: Field screen fades and action locks (menu, talk, gateway transition etc)
- :white_check_mark: Field to field transitions
- :white_check_mark: Visualise asset loading progress
- :white_check_mark: Dialog and choices - Just FLASH and RAINBOW and transparent windows todo another day
- :white_check_mark: Add 'full screen' window.config.sizing.factor config to expand to all available space
- :white_check_mark: Fix all remaining background imagery bugs (dark spots - DONE, layer 2/3 - DONE, blending/typeTrans - DONE with 1 bug)
- :white_check_mark: Add keyboard instruction image
- :white_check_mark: Begin kernel initial and save data information
- :black_square_button: Do something about lazing loading windowTextures...
- :white_check_mark: Begin properly implementing field op codes - 92% complete. 4 -> I can do later. 3 - Character graphics ops, undocumented / graphics model changes. 12 - Paletting, eg different approach required
- :white_check_mark: Update savemap with all non op-code data, movements, directions, game time, steps etc
- :white_check_mark: Implement proper save, import, export mechanism
- :black_square_button: Add visual savemap debug mechanism
- :white_check_mark: Ensure all bg textures are loaded before fadeIn of fields
- :white_check_mark: Add visual script progress debug mechanism
- :white_check_mark: Fix npc movement speed, direction and z raycasting
- :white_check_mark: Fix player direction direction (seems to change based on keys pressed)
- :black_square_button: Switch event loop to use render loop rather than individual async methods (performance - tin_1)
- :white_check_mark: Add animation root translation the kujata models and apply in game
- :black_square_button: Tweens are not paused on fade / eg window.anim.clock.stop()
- :point_right: Certain models don't have correct textures / look right - bybf (door w/ lights), bydd (gold chest). Also, gold chest seems to have a shine (?) animation permanently, but not in the op codes
- :black_square_button: Add directional lighting to each model as per flevel, rather than general downlight
- :black_square_button: Sound loops metadata needs to be extracted properly
- :black_square_button: Adjust ray casting so it is not the centre point, eg, no side-to-side movement on 'thin' walkmesh corridors
- :black_square_button: Slippability sometimes looks very jagged
- :black_square_button: Save model doesn't rotate
- :black_square_button: Adjust all lines / gateways to 'cross' the in the required direction to trigger, instead of simple proximity check
- :black_square_button: Relook at go, go 1x, go away. Save crystal in nmkin_4 triggers muliple go 1x
- :black_square_button: Deal with a few misaligned fields (nmkin_2,3,4)
- :black_square_button: Decontruct Moviecamera.lgp, interpret camera movements and implement
- :black_square_button: Try and use the the background images to cull the entity objects
- :black_square_button: Figure out when player movement doesn't move the camera at all. eg, md1stin, cargoin
- :black_square_button: Investigation of parallax (eg, whirlwind maze)
- :black_square_button: Investigation of moveable washmesh (eg elevators, dolphin minigame)
- :black_square_button: Basic sounds, including collisions, triggers, talk with objects (eg, anything not from op codes)
- :black_square_button: Have assumed all movies are disc1, need to improve
- :black_square_button: Implement remaining difficult op codes

### OP Code Completion Status
See the [OPS_CODES_README.md](https://github.com/dangarfield/ff7-fenrir/blob/master/OPS_CODES_README.md) for updates


### Thanks
- Picklejar76 and his work with `https://github.com/picklejar76/kujata` and `https://github.com/picklejar76/kujata-data` for game assets and services
- Myst6re and his work with `https://github.com/myst6re/makoureactor` for understanding a huge amount of the field logic and field op code behaviours
- All of the Tsunamods Discord and Qhimm community for their extensive work so far
- Many others as I begin to work through further

Commit message:

Update readme based on kujata improvements

README.md, after:

# FF7 - Fenrir
> Web based game engine for FF7 - Work-in-progress

![FF7 Fenrir](https://i.ibb.co/LR51c6f/title.png)

We all love FF7, there are lots of Mods and an amazing community. As part of my personal foray into 3D graphics, I wanted to work to better understand the assets, data and logic, ideally with result of creating a new Game Engine that runs using FF7 data.

I will prodeminately be looking at recreating the fields in the first instance. Ideally it will use the in game assets (`.lgp`'s etc), but I will start using generated json fields and pngs for a start.

I've also added a huge amount of functionality to [https://github.com/dangarfield/kujata](kujata) also - Web-friendly FF7 assets

Live Link - [https://ff7-fenrir.netlify.app/](https://ff7-fenrir.netlify.app/)

### Installation
- None, [https://ff7-fenrir.netlify.app/](https://ff7-fenrir.netlify.app/) link. If you want to install locally:
- Clone this repo `git clone https://github.com/dangarfield/ff7-fenrir.git`
- Clone `git clone https://github.com/dangarfield/kujata-data.git` into a seperate directory and symlink into a previously created `ff7-fenrir` folder, ensuring that it is called `kujata-data-dg`. Alternatively, edit `KUJATA_BASE` variable in `app.mjs` to NOT point to localhost
- Install `node.js`, `git clone https://github.com/dangarfield/ff7-fenrir.git`, `cd` to folder, `npm install serve` (or any other static web server), run `serve`, open `http://localhost:5000` in browser, or `http-server -p 5000 -s`

### Progress - Field
- :white_check_mark: Extract model assets from kujata
- :white_check_mark: Extract field data - Added a lot more to kujata
- :white_check_mark: Render walkmesh and models
- :white_check_mark: Align walkmesh with static renders (Some mismatches on some fields. although this appears to be simple lateral movement)
- :white_check_mark: Extract layer by layer field data and add to kujata-data
- :white_check_mark: Apply 3D occlussion culling using Perspective Camera approach (may change approach to multiple blended orthogonal approaches) - Roughly right
- :white_check_mark: Orientation and scale of models on walkmesh (About right)
- :white_check_mark: Control character on screen
- :white_check_mark: Crop, zoom and centering for non-default viewport fields (320x240)
- :white_check_mark: Viewport follows character on screen
- :white_check_mark: Triggers and gateways have collisions and behaviours
- :white_check_mark: Model collision detection and talking area collision
- :white_check_mark: Refactor into cleaner code
- :white_check_mark: Implement remaining trigger behaviours
- :white_check_mark: Extract kernel.bin(s) to helpful format
- :white_check_mark: Extract window.bin to helpful format
- :white_check_mark: Extract window.bin individual paletted pngs
- :white_check_mark: Field position helpers -> Hand and animated arrows (not figured out scale or gatewayArrow positions yet)
- :white_check_mark: Field screen fades and action locks (menu, talk, gateway transition etc)
- :white_check_mark: Field to field transitions
- :white_check_mark: Visualise asset loading progress
- :white_check_mark: Dialog and choices - Just FLASH and RAINBOW and transparent windows todo another day
- :white_check_mark: Add 'full screen' window.config.sizing.factor config to expand to all available space
- :white_check_mark: Fix all remaining background imagery bugs (dark spots - DONE, layer 2/3 - DONE, blending/typeTrans - DONE with 1 bug)
- :white_check_mark: Add keyboard instruction image
- :white_check_mark: Begin kernel initial and save data information
- :black_square_button: Do something about lazing loading windowTextures...
- :white_check_mark: Begin properly implementing field op codes - 92% complete. 4 -> I can do later. 3 - Character graphics ops, undocumented / graphics model changes. 12 - Paletting, eg different approach required
- :white_check_mark: Update savemap with all non op-code data, movements, directions, game time, steps etc
- :white_check_mark: Implement proper save, import, export mechanism
- :black_square_button: Add visual savemap debug mechanism
- :white_check_mark: Ensure all bg textures are loaded before fadeIn of fields
- :white_check_mark: Add visual script progress debug mechanism
- :white_check_mark: Fix npc movement speed, direction and z raycasting
- :white_check_mark: Fix player direction direction (seems to change based on keys pressed)
- :point_right: Switch event loop to use render loop rather than individual async methods (performance - tin_1)
- :white_check_mark: Add animation root translation the kujata models and apply in game
- :black_square_button: Tweens are not paused on fade / eg window.anim.clock.stop()
- :white_check_mark: Doors models don't have correct textures / look right - bybf (door w/ lights)
- :white_check_mark: Save model doesn't rotate
- :black_square_button: Many broken field models and animations. Mostly seem to be inanimate objects, bydd (gold chest) - Investigate in kujata. Also, gold chest seems to have a shine (?) animation permanently, but not in the op codes 
- :black_square_button: Add directional lighting to each model as per flevel, rather than general downlight
- :white_check_mark: Sound loops metadata needs to be extracted properly
- :black_square_button: Adjust ray casting so it is not the centre point, eg, no side-to-side movement on 'thin' walkmesh corridors
- :black_square_button: Slippability sometimes looks very jagged

- :black_square_button: Adjust all lines / gateways to 'cross' the in the required direction to trigger, instead of simple proximity check
- :black_square_button: Relook at go, go 1x, go away. Save crystal in nmkin_4 triggers muliple go 1x
- :black_square_button: Deal with a few misaligned fields (nmkin_2,3,4)
- :black_square_button: Decontruct Moviecamera.lgp, interpret camera movements and implement
- :point_right: Try and use the the background images to cull the entity objects
- :black_square_button: Figure out when player movement doesn't move the camera at all. eg, md1stin, cargoin
- :black_square_button: Investigation of parallax (eg, whirlwind maze)
- :black_square_button: Investigation of moveable washmesh (eg elevators, dolphin minigame)
- :black_square_button: Basic sounds, including collisions, triggers, talk with objects (eg, anything not from op codes)
- :black_square_button: Have assumed all movies are disc1, need to improve
- :black_square_button: Implement remaining difficult op codes

### OP Code Completion Status
See the [OPS_CODES_README.md](https://github.com/dangarfield/ff7-fenrir/blob/master/OPS_CODES_README.md) for updates


### Thanks
- Picklejar76 and his work with `https://github.com/picklejar76/kujata` and `https://github.com/picklejar76/kujata-data` for game assets and services
- Myst6re and his work with `https://github.com/myst6re/makoureactor` for understanding a huge amount of the field logic and field op code behaviours
- All of the Tsunamods Discord and Qhimm community for their extensive work so far
- Many others as I begin to work through further
